Express express.urlencoded() Function
The express.urlencoded() middleware in Express.js is used to parse URL-encoded form data, making it accessible as a JavaScript object in req.body. It's essential for handling form submissions in application/x-www-form-urlencoded format.

Syntax

app.use(
    express.urlencoded({
        extended: true,
        inflate: true,
        limit: "1mb",
        parameterLimit: 5000,
        type: "application/x-www-form-urlencoded",
    })
);
extended: true : Allows parsing of nested objects and arrays using the qs library.
inflate: true: Automatically decompresses gzip/deflate request bodies before parsing.
limit: '1mb': Restricts the maximum size of the request body to 1MB for security.
parameterLimit: 5000: Limits the number of form fields to 5000 to prevent DoS attacks.
type: 'application/x-www-form-urlencoded': Only parses requests with this MIME type.
How express.urlencoded Works?
The express.urlencoded() middleware processes URL-encoded form data, converts it into a JavaScript object, and makes it available via req.body.

First it processes form data sent via POST requests with application/x-www-form-urlencoded encoding.
Then it converts the incoming data into a JavaScript object and makes it accessible through req.body.
When { extended: true } is set, it supports nested objects and arrays using the qs library.
It includes security options like limit to restrict body size and parameterLimit to prevent excessive form fields.
It only parses requests with Content-Type: application/x-www-form-urlencoded, ignoring other data formats.

Use cases of express.urlencoded
Handling User Authentication Forms: Used to process login and signup forms, where users submit credentials like username and password via a POST request.
Processing Contact or Feedback Forms: When users submit a contact form on a website, express.urlencoded() parses the form data (e.g., name, email, message) and makes it accessible in req.body.
Submitting Order Forms in E-commerce Apps: When a customer fills out an order form, the middleware extracts details like product name, quantity, and address for order processing.
Storing Survey or Questionnaire Responses: Used to collect and store survey responses, where users submit multiple-choice or text responses through a form.
Handling Profile Update Forms: In user dashboards, when users update their name, bio, or preferences via a form, express.urlencoded() ensures the server correctly processes the updated data.