Express.js express.text() Function
The express.text() function is a built-in middleware in Express.js that parses incoming HTTP request bodies with a text/plain content type. It allows you to easily handle raw text data sent in the body of a request, making it suitable for handling non-JSON, non-URL-encoded, or non-multipart data.

The middleware parses the request body and makes it available in req.body, allowing you to access and work with the text data easily.

Syntax

express.text([options])]
Parameter: The options parameter contains various properties like defaultCharset, inflate, limit, verify, etc.

defaultCharset: Specifies the default character encoding (default: utf-8)
inflate: Allows handling of compressed request bodies
limit: Defines the maximum size of the text payload
verify: Custom function to validate request body before parsing
Return Value: Returns an Object containing the parsed text data.

As soon as you send the text on to the server server will respond with the same text message to you after parsing it.

How Does express.text() Work?
When you set up express.text() as middleware in your Express app, it processes requests where the Content-Type header is set to text/plain. The middleware reads the body of the request and transforms it into a plain text string, which can then be accessed via req.body.

The client sends an HTTP request with a Content-Type of text/plain.
The request body is passed to the express.text() middleware.
The middleware processes the body and adds the text content to req.body.
You can access the plain text data directly from req.body in your route handler.
The Size limit parameter present in options
To prevent large requests from overloading the server, you can set a size limit for text payloads using the limit option

app.use(express.text({ limit: "100b" })); ensures that incoming text data does not exceed 100 bytes, preventing large payloads.
When a POST request is made to /, the server logs the received text (req.body) and sends a response confirming the received data
app.listen(PORT, ...) runs the server and logs a message indicating it is running on port 3000
If the text payload exceeds 100 bytes, the server returns a 413 Payload Too Large error.



Common Use cases of express.text() middleware
Handling Chat Messages: Used in chat applications where messages are sent as plain text instead of JSON
Processing Webhooks: Some external services send webhook data as plain text, which express.text() helps parse
Logging and Monitoring: Collects log messages or status updates from clients and stores them for analysis
Text-Based APIs: Useful in APIs where requests contain plain text input, such as search queries or commands
Handling File Metadata: Some file upload services send metadata as plain text, which can be parsed using express.text()
Conclusion
The express.text() middleware in Express.js is essential for handling plain text requests by converting them into a string accessible via req.body. It is useful in scenarios like chat applications, webhook processing, logging, and APIs that require text-based input. By using express.text(), developers can efficiently process text data, improve request handling, and ensure structured text parsing in their applications

